signs-signals-and-codes-merit-badge/index.md, before:

---
title: Signs, Signals, and Codes Merit Badge
---

# Signs, Signals, and Codes

Tyler Akins

<table width="30%"><tr><td>

![](badge.jpg)

</td></tr></table>

Notes:

BRING THE CODE SHEET!
Bring merit badge pamphlet.
Bring plenty of paper for people to use.
Bring braille encoder and cardstock.
Bring topographical map.

---

## Who am I?

Tyler Akins

Cipher website<br />
Helped proofread books on ciphers

612-387-8102 <br />
fidian@rumkin.com

</td></tr></table>

Email is for adults and for Scouts that have a current Cyber Chip.
<!-- .element style="color: red" -->

---

## Expectations

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="on-my-honor-coin.jpg" data-background-size="cover" -->

## Scout-Like Behavior
<!-- .element: style="background-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.5)" -->

Respectful and engaged, otherwise you will be asked to leave.
<!-- .element: style="background-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.5)" -->

----

## Like College, Not High School

With college, you pay the instructor to teach. It's up to the student to learn.

----

## Not Prepared?

It's okay. Let me know, I make a note, and we will simply move on.

I'll try to help achieve as many requirements as possible.

<img src="unprepared.jpg">

----

## Action Verb

Each requirement has action verbs. "Describe," "prepare," "report," "interview," and other actions need to be performed.

Requirements must be met word for word.

----

## Ethics

Scouts are expected to have done their own work. It is immoral to claim another person's work as your own.

----

## Participation Is Expected

<img src="participation.jpg" width="40%"/>

Notes:

This also means you should follow along and know what question we are discussing.

---

## Importance
### Requirement 1

----

1: Discuss with your counselor the importance of signs, signals, and codes, and why people need these different methods of communication. Briefly discuss the history and development of signs, signals, and codes.

----

What are signs, signals, and codes?

Notes:

BSA definition isn't what's expected - signs communicate messages without words.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="automotive-symbols.jpg" data-background-size="contain" data-background-color="#03070a" -->

Notes:

Signs can also be confusing without a shared meaning.

Doofer = an object or device where one can't remember its name. "Thingie"

----

How are signs, signals, and codes used?

Notes:

They can indicate danger, instructions for use, or convey messages.

----

When were signs, signals, and codes first used?

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="oldest-cave-painting.jpg" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

Earliest sign: picture of pig in Indonesia, 45,500 years ago.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="caveman-yes.gif" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

Earliest signal: likely a gesture

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="caesar-cipher.png" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

Earliest code: Caesar cipher, about 56 BC, general Julius Caesar

----

How did signs, signals, and codes develop over time?

Notes:

They became more complex. Fire on tops of mountains, reflected sunlight from shields, smoke signals.

Codes typically change a message from one form to another. They can obscure, shorten, or allow the transmission of a message through a different medium.

---

## Emergency Communications
### Requirement 2

----

2: Explain the importance of signaling in emergency communications. Discuss with your counselor the types of emergency or distress signals one might use to attract airborne search-and-rescue personnel if lost in the outdoors or trying to summon assistance during a disaster. Illustrate these signaling examples by the use of photos or drawings.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="ground-to-air.jpg" data-background-size="contain" -->

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="air-seeing-signal.jpg" data-background-size="contain"-->

Notes:

2 mylar space blankets cut up to make the arrow. The trunk of the arrow is about 2 feet wide and 14 feet long.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="pop-smoke.jpg" data-background-size="contain" -->

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="smoke-from-air.jpg" data-background-size="contain"-->

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="smoke-from-air2.jpg" data-background-size="contain"-->

---

## Morse Code
### Requirement 3a

----

3a: Describe what Morse code is and the various means by which it can be sent. Spell your first name using Morse code. Send or receive a message of six to 10 words using Morse code.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="morse-code.jpg" data-background-size="contain" -->

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="morse-code-tree.png" data-background-size="contain" -->

<table style="width: 100%">
<tr>
<td style="width: 30%">&larr; Dot</td>
<td></td>
<td style="width: 30%">Dash &rarr;</td>
</tr>
</table>

<div style="height: 15em"></div>

---

## American Sign Language
### Requirement 3b

----

3b: Describe what American Sign Language (ASL) is and how it is used today. Spell your first name using American Sign Language. Send or receive a message of six to 10 words using ASL.

Notes:

ASL words are not the same as English words. Articles can be omitted and there are are contractions.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="asl.png" data-background-size="contain" -->

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="asl-help.gif" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

Help (to assist)

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="asl-help-me.gif" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

Help me

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="asl-i-will-help-you.gif" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

I will help you

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="asl-how-are-you.gif" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

How are you?

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="asl-i-dont-know.gif" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

I don't know

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="force-be-with-you.gif" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

May the Force be with you

---

## Flags
### Requirement 4

----

4: Give your counselor a brief explanation about semaphore, why it is used, how it is used, and where it is used. Explain the difference between semaphore flags and nautical flags.

Notes:

Transmits messages visually, one letter at a time, by positioning flags around the sender. Originated on land, used by the Navy and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="optical-telegraph.jpg" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

Optical telegraph, 18th century France. Mostly used to spread gossip about aristocrats.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="maritime-signal-flags.gif" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

Flags here represent letters, numbers, or short messages. It does this by using many different flags. Semaphore conveys single letters at a time by flag position.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="boat-flags.jpg" data-background-size="cover" -->

Notes:

Can run flags up any of the masts. Larger ships can send more complex messages because they have the space.

First-Substitute 9 4 5 Y 8 2 Answer/Code 6 4 ?

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="international-codes-left.jpg" data-background-size="cover" -->

Notes:

International Code of Signals, circa WWII (1940's). Three-letter codes also exist.

----

4a: Spell your first name using semaphore. Send or receive a message of six to 10 words using semaphore.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="semaphore.jpg" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

The images here are shown from the receiver's point of view.

Space/rest also should be used to separate repeated letters, such as with "HELLO".

----

4b: Using illustrations or photographs, identify 10 examples of nautical flags and discuss their importance.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="flags.jpg" data-background-size="contain" -->

---

## Braille
### Requirement 5

----

5: Explain the braille reading technique and how it helps individuals with sight impairment to communicate. Then do the following:

Notes:

Grade 1 vs Grade 2 (shortcut symbols). Interestingly, reading braille uses the brain's visual cortex.

Numbers in Nemeth Braille Code are lowered by one position.

----

5a: Either by sight or by touch, identify the letters of the braille alphabet that spell your name. By sight or touch, decode a braille message at least six words long.

----

5b: Create a message in braille at least six words long, and share this with your counselor.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="braille.gif" data-background-size="contain" -->

---

## Audible Signals
### Requirement 6

----

6a: Describe to your counselor six sound-only signals that are in use today. Discuss the pros and cons of using sound signals versus other types of signals.

Notes:

Train whistle. Fire alarm (questionable). Bugle calls. Whistle signals in military or shooting/archery range. Horn blasts for distress or in cars. Sirens. Doorbell.

----

6b: Demonstrate to your counselor six different silent Scout signals. Use these Scout signals to direct the movements and actions of your patrol or troop.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="silent-scout-signals.jpg" data-background-size="contain" -->

---

## Trail Signs
### Requirement 7

----

7: On a Scout outing, lay out a trail for your patrol or troop to follow. Cover at least one mile in distance and use at least six different trail signs and markers. After the Scouts have completed the trail, follow no-trace principles by replacing or returning trail markers to their original locations.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="trail-signs.jpg" data-background-size="contain" -->

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="trail-blaze-symbols.svg" data-background-size="contain" -->

---

## Signals
### Requirement 8

----

8: For THREE of the following activities, demonstrate five signals each. Tell what the signals mean and why they are used:

8a: Sports officials hand signs/signals

8b: Heavy-equipment operators hand signals

8c: Aircraft carrier catapult crew signals

8d: Cyclists hand signals

8e: An activity selected by you and your counselor

---

## Examples Used Today
### Requirement 9

9: Share with your counselor 10 examples of symbols used in everyday life. Design your own symbol. Share it with your counselor and explain what it means.

----

9a: Show examples of 10 traffic signs and explain their meaning.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="traffic-signs.jpg" data-background-size="contain" -->

----

9b: Using a topographical map, explain what a map legend is and discuss its importance. Point out 10 map symbols and explain the meaning of each.

----

9c: Discuss text-message symbols and why they are commonly used. Give examples of your favorite 10 text symbols or emoticons. Then see if your counselor or parent can identify the meaning or usage of each symbol.

---

## Ciphers and Cryptography
### Requirement 10

----

10: Briefly discuss the history of secret code writing (cryptography). Make up your own secret code and write a message of up to 25 words using this code. Share the message with a friend or fellow Scout. Then share the message and code key with your counselor and discuss the effectiveness of your code.

---

# THE END

### Thank you!

*You survived!* <!-- .element style="font-size: 0.6em" -->

----

Tyler Akins

<table><tr><td>

12650 130th Ave N<br>
Dayton, MN 55327

</td><td>

612-387-8102 <br>
fidian@rumkin.com

</td></tr></table>

Email is for adults and for Scouts that have a current Cyber Chip. <!-- .element style="color: red" -->

Commit message:

Adding note about natural gas

signs-signals-and-codes-merit-badge/index.md, after:

---
title: Signs, Signals, and Codes Merit Badge
---

# Signs, Signals, and Codes

Tyler Akins

<table width="30%"><tr><td>

![](badge.jpg)

</td></tr></table>

Notes:

BRING THE CODE SHEET!
Bring merit badge pamphlet.
Bring plenty of paper for people to use.
Bring braille encoder and cardstock.
Bring topographical map.

---

## Who am I?

Tyler Akins

Cipher website<br />
Helped proofread books on ciphers

612-387-8102 <br />
fidian@rumkin.com

</td></tr></table>

Email is for adults and for Scouts that have a current Cyber Chip.
<!-- .element style="color: red" -->

---

## Expectations

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="on-my-honor-coin.jpg" data-background-size="cover" -->

## Scout-Like Behavior
<!-- .element: style="background-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.5)" -->

Respectful and engaged, otherwise you will be asked to leave.
<!-- .element: style="background-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.5)" -->

----

## Like College, Not High School

With college, you pay the instructor to teach. It's up to the student to learn.

----

## Not Prepared?

It's okay. Let me know, I make a note, and we will simply move on.

I'll try to help achieve as many requirements as possible.

<img src="unprepared.jpg">

----

## Action Verb

Each requirement has action verbs. "Describe," "prepare," "report," "interview," and other actions need to be performed.

Requirements must be met word for word.

----

## Ethics

Scouts are expected to have done their own work. It is immoral to claim another person's work as your own.

----

## Participation Is Expected

<img src="participation.jpg" width="40%"/>

Notes:

This also means you should follow along and know what question we are discussing.

---

## Importance
### Requirement 1

----

1: Discuss with your counselor the importance of signs, signals, and codes, and why people need these different methods of communication. Briefly discuss the history and development of signs, signals, and codes.

----

What are signs, signals, and codes?

Notes:

BSA definition isn't what's expected - signs communicate messages without words.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="automotive-symbols.jpg" data-background-size="contain" data-background-color="#03070a" -->

Notes:

Signs can also be confusing without a shared meaning.

Doofer = an object or device where one can't remember its name. "Thingie"

----

How are signs, signals, and codes used?

Notes:

They can indicate danger, instructions for use, or convey messages.

Mercaptan is added to natural gas to give it an odor.

----

When were signs, signals, and codes first used?

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="oldest-cave-painting.jpg" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

Earliest sign: picture of pig in Indonesia, 45,500 years ago.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="caveman-yes.gif" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

Earliest signal: likely a gesture

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="caesar-cipher.png" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

Earliest code: Caesar cipher, about 56 BC, general Julius Caesar

----

How did signs, signals, and codes develop over time?

Notes:

They became more complex. Fire on tops of mountains, reflected sunlight from shields, smoke signals.

Codes typically change a message from one form to another. They can obscure, shorten, or allow the transmission of a message through a different medium.

---

## Emergency Communications
### Requirement 2

----

2: Explain the importance of signaling in emergency communications. Discuss with your counselor the types of emergency or distress signals one might use to attract airborne search-and-rescue personnel if lost in the outdoors or trying to summon assistance during a disaster. Illustrate these signaling examples by the use of photos or drawings.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="ground-to-air.jpg" data-background-size="contain" -->

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="air-seeing-signal.jpg" data-background-size="contain"-->

Notes:

2 mylar space blankets cut up to make the arrow. The trunk of the arrow is about 2 feet wide and 14 feet long.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="pop-smoke.jpg" data-background-size="contain" -->

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="smoke-from-air.jpg" data-background-size="contain"-->

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="smoke-from-air2.jpg" data-background-size="contain"-->

---

## Morse Code
### Requirement 3a

----

3a: Describe what Morse code is and the various means by which it can be sent. Spell your first name using Morse code. Send or receive a message of six to 10 words using Morse code.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="morse-code.jpg" data-background-size="contain" -->

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="morse-code-tree.png" data-background-size="contain" -->

<table style="width: 100%">
<tr>
<td style="width: 30%">&larr; Dot</td>
<td></td>
<td style="width: 30%">Dash &rarr;</td>
</tr>
</table>

<div style="height: 15em"></div>

---

## American Sign Language
### Requirement 3b

----

3b: Describe what American Sign Language (ASL) is and how it is used today. Spell your first name using American Sign Language. Send or receive a message of six to 10 words using ASL.

Notes:

ASL words are not the same as English words. Articles can be omitted and there are are contractions.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="asl.png" data-background-size="contain" -->

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="asl-help.gif" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

Help (to assist)

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="asl-help-me.gif" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

Help me

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="asl-i-will-help-you.gif" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

I will help you

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="asl-how-are-you.gif" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

How are you?

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="asl-i-dont-know.gif" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

I don't know

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="force-be-with-you.gif" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

May the Force be with you

---

## Flags
### Requirement 4

----

4: Give your counselor a brief explanation about semaphore, why it is used, how it is used, and where it is used. Explain the difference between semaphore flags and nautical flags.

Notes:

Transmits messages visually, one letter at a time, by positioning flags around the sender. Originated on land, used by the Navy and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="optical-telegraph.jpg" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

Optical telegraph, 18th century France. Mostly used to spread gossip about aristocrats.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="maritime-signal-flags.gif" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

Flags here represent letters, numbers, or short messages. It does this by using many different flags. Semaphore conveys single letters at a time by flag position.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="boat-flags.jpg" data-background-size="cover" -->

Notes:

Can run flags up any of the masts. Larger ships can send more complex messages because they have the space.

First-Substitute 9 4 5 Y 8 2 Answer/Code 6 4 ?

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="international-codes-left.jpg" data-background-size="cover" -->

Notes:

International Code of Signals, circa WWII (1940's). Three-letter codes also exist.

----

4a: Spell your first name using semaphore. Send or receive a message of six to 10 words using semaphore.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="semaphore.jpg" data-background-size="contain" -->

Notes:

The images here are shown from the receiver's point of view.

Space/rest also should be used to separate repeated letters, such as with "HELLO".

----

4b: Using illustrations or photographs, identify 10 examples of nautical flags and discuss their importance.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="flags.jpg" data-background-size="contain" -->

---

## Braille
### Requirement 5

----

5: Explain the braille reading technique and how it helps individuals with sight impairment to communicate. Then do the following:

Notes:

Grade 1 vs Grade 2 (shortcut symbols). Interestingly, reading braille uses the brain's visual cortex.

Numbers in Nemeth Braille Code are lowered by one position.

----

5a: Either by sight or by touch, identify the letters of the braille alphabet that spell your name. By sight or touch, decode a braille message at least six words long.

----

5b: Create a message in braille at least six words long, and share this with your counselor.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="braille.gif" data-background-size="contain" -->

---

## Audible Signals
### Requirement 6

----

6a: Describe to your counselor six sound-only signals that are in use today. Discuss the pros and cons of using sound signals versus other types of signals.

Notes:

Train whistle. Fire alarm (questionable). Bugle calls. Whistle signals in military or shooting/archery range. Horn blasts for distress or in cars. Sirens. Doorbell.

----

6b: Demonstrate to your counselor six different silent Scout signals. Use these Scout signals to direct the movements and actions of your patrol or troop.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="silent-scout-signals.jpg" data-background-size="contain" -->

---

## Trail Signs
### Requirement 7

----

7: On a Scout outing, lay out a trail for your patrol or troop to follow. Cover at least one mile in distance and use at least six different trail signs and markers. After the Scouts have completed the trail, follow no-trace principles by replacing or returning trail markers to their original locations.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="trail-signs.jpg" data-background-size="contain" -->

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="trail-blaze-symbols.svg" data-background-size="contain" -->

---

## Signals
### Requirement 8

----

8: For THREE of the following activities, demonstrate five signals each. Tell what the signals mean and why they are used:

8a: Sports officials hand signs/signals

8b: Heavy-equipment operators hand signals

8c: Aircraft carrier catapult crew signals

8d: Cyclists hand signals

8e: An activity selected by you and your counselor

---

## Examples Used Today
### Requirement 9

9: Share with your counselor 10 examples of symbols used in everyday life. Design your own symbol. Share it with your counselor and explain what it means.

----

9a: Show examples of 10 traffic signs and explain their meaning.

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="traffic-signs.jpg" data-background-size="contain" -->

----

9b: Using a topographical map, explain what a map legend is and discuss its importance. Point out 10 map symbols and explain the meaning of each.

----

9c: Discuss text-message symbols and why they are commonly used. Give examples of your favorite 10 text symbols or emoticons. Then see if your counselor or parent can identify the meaning or usage of each symbol.

---

## Ciphers and Cryptography
### Requirement 10

----

10: Briefly discuss the history of secret code writing (cryptography). Make up your own secret code and write a message of up to 25 words using this code. Share the message with a friend or fellow Scout. Then share the message and code key with your counselor and discuss the effectiveness of your code.

---

# THE END

### Thank you!

*You survived!* <!-- .element style="font-size: 0.6em" -->

----

Tyler Akins

<table><tr><td>

12650 130th Ave N<br>
Dayton, MN 55327

</td><td>

612-387-8102 <br>
fidian@rumkin.com

</td></tr></table>

Email is for adults and for Scouts that have a current Cyber Chip. <!-- .element style="color: red" -->
